# 3D-Visualization
# This is a simple project I started working on because I had seen some videos on youtube of people displaying spinning shapes using C code. When I first saw Servet Gulnaroglu's video (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p09i_hoFdd0) I tried recreating it in Java, since that was all I knew. I didn't understand what any of it was doing, so I was unsuccessful. After starting a class at my University, I had to start learning C. That's when I realized I could actually recreate the code myself. I then wanted to understand how it worked, so I found a blog post by Andy Sloane (https://www.a1k0n.net/2011/07/20/donut-math.html) describing his process in creating a spinning donut. I used these two examples and was able to understand why each program worked. I wanted to create something that was able to create non-specific 3d shapes (I was trying to display a heart for my girlfriend). I decided to start small and see if I could recreate functionality that would be able to draw a line. Since I needed an equation for the x and y (and z) values, I decided to use what I had learned in my Calculus 3 class about space curves and vector functions. I was finally able to display a small line, and quickly transformed that into 2d shapes. The next piece was the 3d aspect. The examples I was following were using axis rotations to form 3d shapes, but since I was using parametric equations I had to have a different z calculation. After completeing that, I wanted to include the light function that Andy Sloane used to display depth. Since he used a single shape, he was able to find the normal vector pretty easily. Since I wanted to be able to plot multiple surfaces, I needed to find another way to find the normal vector. At first I was stumped because I wasn't able to symbolically derivate my parametric equations, because it all had to be ready at compile time. I decided to approximate the normal vector by using information I had learned in Calculus 3, and calculate it using the vector orthogonal to the tangent plane. To calculate the tangent plane I had to approximate two vectors that lie on that plane, so I used a small step size to find a u and v, and took the cross product of those to find the normal vector. I was then able to take the dot product with a light vector to find the luminance value. This program is useful because I was having trouble visualizing space curves and vector functions in Calculus 3 class. This allows me to plot any space curve or surface and get a rough visualization of its behavior in R^3.
